HAVE A FULL MEAL
Damn it.
Finally got it.
All right.
-Let's go.
-Stop.
-Where did this one come from?
-Did you see him?
You didn't notice him?
Hand over the deed,
then I'll let you go.
I refuse.
I'll stride straight out of here.
If you can, try and stop me.
You bunch of damned scoundrels.
Put it down, now!
You bunch of neighbors
are really interesting.
You're all courting death, are you?
If you want to leave,
ask my broom if it'll allow it!
Get over here.
Get over here!
You old man!
Run, and I'll chase you down!
Wait a minute.
Sir.
Let's see you run!
-Are you okay?
-I'm not.
You dare hit me?
You've got it coming!
Damn you!
Fists don't have eyes.
Quick, find a place to hide!
Stinky old man.
Hey! Hey!
That's enough!
Damn you! Damn you!
Changyu!
Changyu, quickly!
-Madam Zhuang, please look after Ning.
-Okay.
Take this!
Ms. Fan, listen to me!
Let me see who dares!
Quick, quick, quick!
Changyu, don't fight anymore.
Old Zhao has nearly beaten them to death.
If you strike again, they'll die.
Didn't learn your lesson, huh?
Ms. Fan.
Your Ladyship, Ms. Fan.
You've misunderstood.
We came this time
because we heard you're getting married.
We're here to congratulate you.
Yes, yes, yes! We…
We came to congratulate you.
We're not here to take the title deed.
You came to congratulate
armed with weapons?
My husband is already injured,
and you few still beat him up!
No, no, no!
-We didn't!
-We didn't.
We didn't lay a finger on him.
-Didn't… Didn't hurt him.
-No.
He got scared.
That's no better!
Don't, don't, don't!
So, this gentleman
is your esteemed husband?
We didn't realize who he was.
Money. The money.
We really came to congratulate you.
Congratulations.
Have mercy on us.
That's all.
Get out, now.
If you dare come again,
we will beat you to death.
Come on. Let's go.
-Get the hell out!
-Go away!
Move!
-Well done!
Are you okay?
They did hurt you.
-I'll go kill them.
-It's not them.
-Then whose fault is it?
-Mine.
I sat on him.
So did I!
-Me, too.
-Right.
-Come.
-We're here. Be careful.
-Make way.
It's all Old Zhao's fault
for being clumsy.
I just went to buy groceries.
You nearly crushed him sitting on him.
He just recovered.
Good thing Mr. Zhao stepped in.
I can't thank you enough.
Mrs. Zhao, you all go rest.
I'll take care of Yan Zheng.
Alright.
-I'll cook to thank everyone.
-Alright.
-Let's go.
-Come on.
Go outside.
Yan Zheng, give me your hand.
Old Zhao, come out.
What?
What do you think?
-I haven't even checked his pulse yet.
-What?
Can't you take a hint?
What hint?
The wound on your back has split open.
There's a large bloodstain.
I need to clean it.
I'll do it myself.
Let me help.
You were the one who did it, weren't you?
This wound of yours,
even if Uncle pressed on it,
wouldn't have split open like this.
You got into a fight.
From your build,
I can tell
you're trained in martial arts.
I was an armed escort,
traveling north and south.
It's just for protection.
I didn't intentionally hide it from you.
No wonder.
My father was also an armed escort before.
He also had many old scars
like yours on his body.
Being an escort
means gambling with your life.
Bear with it.
At Hucha Pass,
you also encountered bandits
and got injured in the fight?
Yes.
There's nothing of value here.
If they want to smash, let them.
Why did you take action?
If I didn't take action,
they would have taken this.
DEED OF CONDITIONAL SALE
You did it for this title deed?
Thank you.
ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL ZHU YU
BY TUAN ZI LAI XI ON JJWXC.NET
With this broom of mine today,
they all fell down.
Just touch someone, and they fall.
No wonder they say
even a rabbit bites when cornered.
If not for these fights,
I wouldn't have known I'm so capable.
Of course.
We are the War Gods of Xigu Alley.
-Right, come on, come on.
-That's right.
Have a drink.
Drink up, drink up.
I say, we're no worse
than that Marquis Wu'an.
-Right?
-Of course.
Of course.
However,
you, young man, are a bit weak.
Getting injured just from me
sitting on you.
Changyu, be sure to nourish him well.
Mr. Zhao,
his old injuries haven't healed yet.
Come, let's have a drink, man to man.
Don't drink alcohol. Have tea.
So protective of your husband, are you?
Drinking a little alcohol is okay.
It promotes blood circulation.
Old Zhao,
what are you stirring up here?
He's only just recovered.
How could he drink? He's not like you.
-Go.
-Old Zhao, come here to drink.
Let's drink.
Changyu, did Fan Daniu
really submit the petition?
Is he really that shameless?
Then how about hiring a petition writer?
It would cost so much
to hire a petition writer.
Then what should we do?
How about talking to Song Yan?
After all, he's the only scholar
in our Xigu Alley.
A provincial graduate
doesn't even kneel before officials.
He can surely help Changyu with her case.
Changyu won't ask a bad person for help.
Ning is right.
We won't go begging that ungrateful snake.
Right,
we won't mention that ungrateful snake.
Come on, come on. Drink, drink.
Come, brothers, down it.
-Drink.
-Come on.
Now this is good wine.
Don't worry.
I'll help you.
You?
XIGU ALLEY
That's all.
My mother used them before.
Make do with them.
I'll write down
the response procedure
and the legal phrasing.
Memorize them later.
Once in court, you'll naturally pass.
You can write?
You know these things?
I've traveled far and wide.
You learn a thing or two.
What's wrong?
Before, I thought
Song Yan was the most
amazing person in the world.
I didn't expect you to be better.
Not only do you know martial arts,
but you can also write essays.
The provincial graduate
who wouldn't come out to help you
even when Mrs. Zhao
shouted herself hoarse?
How about you go to court for me instead?
According to the Dayin Code,
only the head of the house
can go to court.
I'm not the head of the house,
so I can't go to court.
Isn't this like forcing a duck
onto a perch?
-Changyu.
-It's my turn.
Silence!
Who is this below the dais
and for what matter?
State your case.
How imposing.
Your Honor,
my name is Fan Changyu.
I am here for the matter
of my house.
-Are your parents present?
-Both deceased.
Based on the Dayin Code,
a house without a male heir
goes to the closest relative.
-If one brother dies, the other--
-Nonsense!
Nonsense!
Disrupting the court! Ning,
-ten heavy strokes of the board.
-Okay.
One, two…
You're serious?
Your Honor,
according to the Dayin Code,
Section on Inheritance, Egg 17,
when the household is egg,
-you must choose an egg.
-Stop.
Egg…
What egg are you talking about?
I never remember the characters.
My mother said when I can't recall one,
just draw an egg.
I got used to saying it.
WHEN A HOUSEHOLD HAS NO HEIR,
ONE MUST BE CHOSEN.
I really can't remember.
How about this?
We find a sack and tie up Fan Daniu.
What do you say?
-And then?
-Mr. Wang said
if he's not present when the court opens,
the case is invalid.
Having gotten away with it once,
there will be a next time.
It can be a good idea
to kill him directly.
End it once and for all. What do you say?
Kill… Killing is against the law!
Let's… Let's not.
Since you can't be that ruthless,
then you'll have to suffer yourself.
Continue memorizing.
Dayin Code, Household Ordinance,
Extinction Chapter,
Article 17,
or a household that is extinc…
Don't be mad.
Your health matters.
I'll keep memorizing.
Forget it.
Recite the Seven-Step Poem.
I suppose the law also follows reason.
Perhaps this can move the magistrate more.
Magistrate Cui also passed
both imperial exams.
What poem?
Pods burned to cook peas
Peas weep in the pot
Grown from the same root
Why torment each other?
What does it mean?
It means boiling beans
uses beanstalks as firewood.
It means a life-and-death struggle
between brothers.
It also refers to Fan Daniu
oppressing his nieces,
being heartless.
Brilliant.
This poem was written
for Fan Daniu, wasn't it?
He's hardly worthy of it.
-What does fu mean?
-Pot.
Same root probably means
having the same father.
Then what about Xiangjian?
Is it a way to cook vegetables?
It's a metaphorical way
to say kill each other.
Got it.
Really?
Boil beans, burn beanstalks.
The beans in the pot…
cry out.
We share the same father.
Why kill me first?
That's not right.
I can't say it's wrong either.
Your Honor!
Boil beans, burn beanstalks.
The beans in the pot cry out.
We share the same father.
Why kill me first?
XIGU ALLEY
Boil beans, burn beanstalks.
The beans in the pot cry out.
We share the same father.
Why kill me first?
Your Honor!
WINTER FADES AND SPRING RETURNS
TO BLESS THE LAND
Yan, where are you going?
I am just tired from studying.
I want to go out for a walk.
You still have the metropolitan
and palace exams ahead.
Don't do anything rash.
I know.
Boil beans…
Mother.
I'm so tired.
Did I disturb you?
I just fell asleep
using your hand as a pillow.
You also got sleepy from reading, right?
I understand that.
Why did the lamp go out?
I'll go find a fire starter.
Who's knocking so late at night?
Song Yan, why are you here?
Let me in first.
Don't let my mother see.
I have…
What?
Changyu.
I came risking the great crime
of defying my elders
to help keep the home.
What?
I thought for a long time these past days.
I finally thought of a way.
I came to tell you
I will take you as my concubine.
Has a donkey kicked you in the head?
Don't celebrate too soon.
I can only try to beg the magistrate
to do me a special favor.
With my status as a provincial graduate,
the magistrate may grant it.
This way, you can keep your home
and get the status you wish for.
Song Yan.
You think by stooping to take
a pig-slaughtering woman like me
as your concubine,
I should be grateful?
I didn't think that.
It's just, I never expected
that for this house,
you would act so impulsively,
giving yourself to a crippled refugee
from Chongzhou.
-A crippled refugee?
-Yes.
Song Yan, I'm really curious.
What makes you look down on him?
He is good at literary and martial arts,
educated and sensible.
In terms of looks,
he's ten times better than you.
Most importantly,
he knows gratitude.
He understands my difficulties.
He's willing to marry into my family.
In my time of crisis,
even though he was injured,
he still helped me seek justice.
Such affection and loyalty
is many times better than yours.
You're just unwilling to accept it now
and want to gain a good reputation
among the neighbors.
That's why you're forced
to come knocking, Song Yan.
You want your hand
in every good thing.
It's not like that.
I truly care for you.
I, Song Yan, now take your hand and swear…
I…
‎BE KIND, DO GOOD
Who are you?
Who am I?
A crippled refugee.
I worry about you every night,
yet you are so unfaithful!
Who are you to me?
Unfaithful to whom?
You disregard propriety and honor.
Simply depraved and corrupting morals!
Based on the Dayin Code,
adultery carries 80 strokes!
breaking in at night makes you a thief.
Serves you right to be beaten to death.
Don't look away.
He is my husband.
Fan Changyu's rightful and legitimate man.
You…
You bring shame upon people.
You bring shame upon people!
To actually commit
such defiling and corrupting acts…
Simply corrupting morals.
Why did I kiss him?
If I scared him off from marrying in,
wouldn't that be gaining a small advantage
but suffering a big loss?
THE HUNDRED HORSES
It's all damn Song Yan's fault.
Damn Song Yan.
Damn Song Yan, Damn Song Yan.
What on earth is that woman thinking?
Just for such a lousy live-in husband?
VIRTUE ALONE ENNOBLES
SPRING BREEZE TOFU SHOP
Miss.
Mrs. Zhao, where's Mr. Zhao?
He went to the town.
Mr. Zhao, you're back.
Mrs. Zhao, I've got things to do.
I need to go.
-Changyu.
-Mr. Zhao.
Why does this young couple
seem to be avoiding each other?
Young brides get nervous before marriage.
Although Changyu has a boyish personality,
she will also be shy.
You were also shy before marrying me.
Shy?
-I cried so much, I was so regretful.
-Look at you.
Yan Zheng.
Yan Zheng, you're awake.
Changyu went to the town.
I know.
I need to talk to you, Mr. Zhao.
Perfect. I was also looking for you. Come.
Come.
Be careful.
That essay, or whatever you wrote,
can sell for that much money?
Is this a lot?
Twenty taels isn't a lot?
I thought the bookstore owner was crazy.
WU AND QI HAVE ARRIVED
AT LIN'AN'S FOUR SEASONS BOOKSHOP
What kind of genius stuff are you writing?
I've traveled a lot and seen much.
I can whip up something to bluff them.
Didn't expect the bookstore owner
to actually accept it.
That's all profit, no cost.
Write a few more.
I will help you sell them.
These are all imitations
of masters' works.
Writing too many might expose the trick.
Not advisable.
Right. We should keep it on the down-low.
But writing like this occasionally
is enough for a year's expenses.
This little money is enough
for a whole year?
For a small family,
if spent frugally,
it can last two or three years.
Seems I still didn't calculate well.
This matter of me selling essays,
please keep it secret for me.
Don't tell anyone.
Understood.
I understand.
I won't breathe a word.
Changyu's lucky.
She found a husband who can make money.
Her hard days are over. She's blessed now.
Changyu.
Mrs. Zhao!
Why did you come back so late?
Come quickly and see
who's waiting for you.
Mrs. Chen, you're here.
Changyu.
Open it and take a look.
Come on. Open it.
This…
is mine?
You said you'd only
make one for the groom.
A girl's looks are important.
I specifically saved some fabric
and borrowed some scrap cloth.
So, I made another set for you.
-Thank you!
-With pleasure.
So beautiful.
-Look!
-Truly beautiful.
So beautiful.
What's this?
What, don't you like it?
I like it.
But who's there to see
such beautiful embroidery?
It's not for you to see.
As long as your husband likes it,
that's fine.
This is for him to wear?
My silly girl.
It's for you to wear
and show him on your wedding night.
-Mrs. Zhao!
-Alright, alright.
Boil beans, burn beanstalks.
The beans in the pot cry out.
We share the same father.
Why torment each other?
Boil beans, burn beanstalks.
The beans in the pot cry out.
-I shouldn't have hidden it under the bed.
-Boil beans, burn beanstalks.
The beans in the pot cry out.
We share the same father.
Why torment each other?
What are you doing here?
You said yesterday to come
try on the wedding clothes.
But our wedding clothes
are all at Mrs. Zhao's place.
Why is she sitting on the bed?
Why is he also sitting over here?
-Then let's go try them together.
-Okay.
-Let's go together.
-Go.
Why isn't he leaving yet?
Has he seen it?
Where's the box? Why can't I feel it?
-Have you finished the poem?
-Have you finished your business?
Have I finished…
I…
-Where was I?
-Share the same father…
Born of the same root.
Then I'll go first.
She probably didn't see it.
Better give it another day.
He probably didn't see it.
Definitely not, no, no.
So embarrassing.
What should I do?
MARRIAGE
HAVE A FULL MEAL
So lively!
Today is Changyu's wedding day.
You need to fully remember the procedures.
Don't worry. I know you're the expert.
But today, you are the host.
Relax and drink. I can handle this.
You mean the live-in husband is very ugly?
And also a cripple?
If not ugly and lame,
who would be a live-in husband these days?
Kang, it's a joyous day.
Watch your words.
So much talk.
Why is she here too?
She's a distant relative of the Fans.
Nothing we can do.
The Fan family's son-in-law comes forth!
What did I say?
Look, if he's not missing arms or legs,
why would he be a live-in husband?
I, Song Yan, have come to congratulate.
Why are you here?
Changyu.
I'll give you one more chance.
If you are willing to be my concubine,
I will honor my vow and take you in.
Take her as a concubine?
This is so disrespectful.
Are you deliberately trying
to humiliate Changyu?
Exactly. Are you deliberately trying
This is the token of love Changyu gave me.
There's nothing romantic between us now.
So I should hand it over
to this live-in husband.
I was only 6 years old
when I gave you these clay dolls.
This isn't a token of love.
You still remember it
from when you were 6.
So you've never really put it behind you.
Don't make me slap you.
You're taking a husband.
I must come with a gift.
Fan family's live-in husband,
will you take this gift or not?
Here he comes.
Look at him.
No wonder our Changyu said
she wasn't at a loss.
Which blind person earlier
made up a story that the bridegroom
was an ugly and deformed cripple?
Wasn't it you, Kang?
After all my years as a matchmaker,
I can tell you this.
With looks like this, forget Song Yan.
You won't find another in Lin'an Town.
No, not in all of Qingping County.
Yes.
Are you taking this gift or not?
I…
accept.
-I accept.
-Wait, accept what?
I asked you to accept my token,
not to get married!
One shouldn't be too kind.
Aside from raising this ungrateful snake,
you haven't raised
any other biting ones, have you?
I've raised many livestock.
This is the only one
that bites back.
Thank you
for failing to recognize
gold inlaid with jade.
Fan Changyu.
I'll just assume you're infatuated.
I won't hold it.
Now I ask you one last time.
Are you willing to be mine?
You…
Let's go.
Alright.
Listen.
There will be a day you regret this!
You…
Hey!
Keep it going!
Fan Changyu, Yan Zheng,
don't be too smug!
Wait until I pass the exam.
You'll get what's coming to you!
Bow to the elders!
Bow.
MARRIAGE
Share the bridal feast.
From now on, share fortune and hardship,
never leaving nor forsaking each other.
Drink together.
Rite of the Three Libations.
Treat each other with courtesy.
Drink from the joined nuptial cups.
The wines mingle as one.
Husband and wife forever in harmony.
-Good.
Good!
Husband and wife bow to each other.
The grand wedding ceremony is complete.
-Good!
Good!
Like before, a live-in husband
must change his surname.
No need.
My husband doesn't need
to change his surname.
He'll remain Yan Zheng. It's a good name.
When children are born,
they need to follow the wife's surname.
Th… that isn't necessary either.
We will have several kids.
They can have whichever surname.
Continue.
Get to the most important part.
As a live-in husband, remember.
The wife holds authority.
The woman is the head of the household.
-The wife sets the rule,
-No.
the husband obeys.
-Good!
-No, no, no.
From now on,
I obey my wife's instructions.
I comply with everything.
If there are matters,
we'll discuss together
and decide together.
All right.
What are we waiting for?
Escort to the bridal chamber.
Good!
Come, Yan Zheng.
Let's go, Yan Zheng.
Our bride is here to toast everyone!
Thank you. Thank you.
-Thank you.
-Thank you all.
-Congratulations.
The bride has come to toast.
Changyu, congratulations.
Everyone put in a lot of effort today,
so make sure to eat and drink well.
-Toast the bride!
-Come on.
Come on.
MEDICINE FOR WOUNDS
Everyone, eat and drink well!
Changyu.
Mr. Wang.
Forgive me. I came late.
Where were you?
Changyu.
I came late. Punish me with a drink.
Quickly, quickly.
Changyu.
These days have been hard for you.
I have seen it all.
Your father and I were old friends.
In the days to come,
consider me as half a family
and him as the other half.
Changyu, I only hope
the days ahead treat you kindly,
that life keeps getting better,
and that you and your husband
grow old together in love.
-Good!
-Thank you, Mr. Wang.
-Come, cheers!
-Cheers!
Thank you all for today.
You're welcome.
Look at you. So pretty.
Changyu is tired.
Head back and rest.
Alright. Safe travels.
Congratulations, Changyu.
-So beautiful.
-Rest early.
Rest early.
What are you doing?
I'm washing dishes.
Wait here.
No need for you to wash.
MANUAL OF THE BEDCHAMBER ARTS
I don't need this.
He's hurt like that.
We won't be needing it.
Soon enough you will.
Back to the bridal chamber.
I'll do the dishes.
Let me do it. You go.
Don't get in the way. Hurry up.
-Changyu.
Upstairs, quickly.
Every minute of the wedding night
is precious.
Go on.
Alright, go quickly.
Wait.
Sorry.
I'm used to living alone.
I keep forgetting there's a man here now.
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED
IN THE MAKING OF THIS EPISODE
Subtitle translation by: Peng Peng